# Prediction of Vehicle Carbon Dioxide Emissions by Statistical Learning Models

## Introduction
As hotter summers and warmer winters become a common phenomenon, environmental protection has gained increasing global importance. Road transportation-related contamination, particularly from vehicles, is a main contributor to environmental deterioration. To reduce its impacts, the characteristics of light-duty vehicles are identified to build a CO2 emissions prediction model.
The audience is assumed to have an interest in statistics and machine learning, an application of artificial intelligence enabling systems to learn from experience without explicit programming. No prior knowledge is required.
The dataset consists of model-specific fuel consumption ratings and estimated carbon dioxide emissions for new light-duty vehicles for retail sale in Canada. Vehicle manufacturers use controlled experimental procedures to generate fuel consumption data. Afterwards, Environment and Climate Change Canada and Natural Resources Canada collates information to publish the Fuel Consumption Guide for audiences including car purchasers, manufacturers, and government bodies.
The aim of this paper is to shortlist a machine learning algorithm with the greatest predictive power of carbon dioxide emissions based on critical features, such that consumers can compare and purchase vehicles with longer lifetimes and lower maintenance costs, saving money in the long run.

## Data
The data used spans 7 years of compiled features and CO2 emissions of various light-duty vehicles. There are 7385 rows of observations and 12 columns in total. The columns include 11 features: Make, Model, Vehicle Class, Engine Size, Cylinders, Transmission, Fuel Type, Fuel Consumption City, Fuel Consumption Hwy, Fuel Consumption Comb (L/100 km), Fuel Consumption Comb (mpg), and 1 target variable: CO2 emissions. With a large sample size to feature ratio, dimension reduction is not necessary. There are 5 non-numeric features which require further analysis to see if they can be manipulated or may otherwise be dropped. There are no null or missing values.
